

	
	Adjuvant intraarterial chemotherapy with nimustine in the management of World Health Organization Grade IV gliomas of the brain. Experience at the Department of Neurosurgery of Dusseldorf University.
	
	A protocol with postoperative adjuvant intraarterial (ia) chemotherapy using nimustine (ACNU) was followed at the University of Dusseldorf (Federal Republic of Germany) after histologic confirmation of malignant glioma of the brain. The first iaACNU procedure was performed within 10 days of surgery, and immediately before postoperative irradiation. After radiotherapy further iaACNU courses were given. The study population consisted of 35 primarily treated malignant gliomas World Health Organization (WHO) Grade IV, i.e., glioblastomas (NIV). Of these tumors 11 showed early progressive disease (PD) (NIV primPD), whereas 24 had stable or responsive disease (NIV SD&amp;RD). Seven patients with recurrent malignant gliomas WHO Grade IV (NIV recurrent) were also treated plus six patients with malignant gliomas WHO Grade III (NIII). Experience with 50 treated patients resulted from this study. The median survival time (MST) for the group NIV was 14.2 months; 41.0% of patients were long-term survivors. The MST for the group NIV primPD was 7.8 months; 9.1% of patients were long-term survivors. For the group NIV SD&amp;RD a MST of 18.3 months and 66.7% of long-term survivors were determined. Patients with recurrent tumors on this treatment protocol had an additional MST of 6.1 months. The total MST after first surgery was 16.2 months. The incidence of complications was low. Systemic complications were infrequent or rare. Retinal disturbances were seen in two patients; leukoencephalopathy was not seen in our patients. In 10% of patients cerebral complications were found, which were irreversible in 2% of patients. Complications could not be assigned unequivocally to the nitrosourea. These results compare favorably with what is reported in the literature, demonstrate the potential value of iaACNU in the treatment of malignant gliomas WHO Grade IV, and should encourage the initiation of a randomized clinical trial of adjuvant iaACNU in the therapy of these tumors. The authors propose iaACNU as a valuable approach in the management of primarily diagnosed malignant gliomas WHO Grade IV, but cannot recommend the delay of iaACNU until the recurrence of a brain tumor.
	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
	


